EN/01_Protect-user-accounts-and-identities.md, before:

# Protect user accounts and identities

([Back](../README.md))

## Objective

Protect User Accounts and Identities.

## Applicable Service Models

- IaaS, PaaS, SaaS

| Mandatory Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Validation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <ul><li>Implement strong multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all user accounts. Use phishing resistant MFA where and when available.<p>(Note: User accounts and identities include:<ol><li> Root/Global administrator (as it is one that that has enhanced/highest level of privileges over the control plane and addresses all aspects of access control).</li><li> Other Administrative user accounts. Refer to Section 4 of the [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601), [Appendix G: Standard on Enterprise Information Technology Service Common Configurations](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32713) - [Account Management Configuration Requirements](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/policies-standards/enterprise-it-service-common-configurations/account.html) for the definition of privileged accounts.</li><li>Regular user accounts)</li></ol></p></li></ul> | <ul><li>Confirm that MFA is implemented as per GC guidance through screenshots, compliance reports, or compliance check enabled through a reporting tool for all user accounts.</li><li>Confirm that digital policies are in palce to ensure that MFA configurations are enforced.</li></li><li>Confirm and report the count of Root/Global administrator registered (should have at least two and no more than 5).</li></ul> |
| <ul><li>Configure alerting to ensure the prompt detection of a potential compromise, in accordance with the GC Event Logging Guidance.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | <ul><li>Confirm if monitoring and auditing is implemented for all user accounts.</li><li>Confirm alert notification to the authorized personnel is implemented for flagging misuse, or suspicious activities for all user accounts.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| <ul><li>Use separate dedicated accounts to administer cloud services to minimize the blast radius.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | <ul><li>Provide evidence that dedicated user accounts are used for administration (e.g., privileged access).</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

| Additional Considerations |
| ------------------------- |
| None                      |

## References

1. [SPIN 2017-01](https://www.canada.ca/en/treasury-board-secretariat/services/access-information-privacy/security-identity-management/direction-secure-use-commercial-cloud-services-spin.html), subsection 6.2.3
2. CSE Top 10 #3
3. Refer to the [Recommendations for Two-Factor User Authentication Within the Government of Canada Enterprise Domain](https://intranet.canada.ca/wg-tg/rtua-rafu-eng.asp)
4. [Refer to the GC Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Strategy Paper](https://www.gcpedia.gc.ca/gcwiki/images/9/9e/GC_MFA_Strategy.pdf)
5. Refer to the [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601), [Appendix G: Standard on Enterprise Information Technology Service Common Configurations](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32713) - [Account Management Configuration Requirements](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/policies-standards/enterprise-it-service-common-configurations/account.html)
6. Refer to the [GC Event Logging Guidance](https://www.gcpedia.gc.ca/gcwiki/images/e/e3/GC_Event_Logging_Strategy.pdf).
7. Refer to [ITSP.50.104 Guidance on defence in depth for cloud-based services](https://cyber.gc.ca/en/guidance/itsp50104-guidance-defence-depth-cloud-based-services), subsection 4.6

Related security controls: AC-2, AC-2(11), AC-3, AC-5, AC-6, AC- 6(5), AC- 6(10), AC-19, AC – 20 (3), IA-2, IA-2(1)
IA - 2(2), IA-2(3), IA – 2(11), IA-5(8), SI-4, SI-4(5), SA-4(12), CM-5.

Commit message:

Provide examples for privileged roles for dedicated accounts (#66)

EN/01_Protect-user-accounts-and-identities.md, after:

# Protect user accounts and identities

([Back](../README.md))

## Objective

Protect User Accounts and Identities.

## Applicable Service Models

- IaaS, PaaS, SaaS

| Mandatory Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Validation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <ul><li>Implement strong multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all user accounts. Use phishing resistant MFA where and when available.<p>(Note: User accounts and identities include:<ol><li> Root/Global administrator (as it is one that that has enhanced/highest level of privileges over the control plane and addresses all aspects of access control).</li><li> Other Administrative user accounts. Refer to Section 4 of the [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601), [Appendix G: Standard on Enterprise Information Technology Service Common Configurations](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32713) - [Account Management Configuration Requirements](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/policies-standards/enterprise-it-service-common-configurations/account.html) for the definition of privileged accounts.</li><li>Regular user accounts)</li></ol></p></li></ul> | <ul><li>Confirm that MFA is implemented as per GC guidance through screenshots, compliance reports, or compliance check enabled through a reporting tool for all user accounts.</li><li>Confirm that digital policies are in palce to ensure that MFA configurations are enforced.</li></li><li>Confirm and report the count of Root/Global administrator registered (should have at least two and no more than 5).</li></ul> |
| <ul><li>Configure alerting to ensure the prompt detection of a potential compromise, in accordance with the GC Event Logging Guidance.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | <ul><li>Confirm if monitoring and auditing is implemented for all user accounts.</li><li>Confirm alert notification to the authorized personnel is implemented for flagging misuse, or suspicious activities for all user accounts.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| <ul><li>Use separate dedicated accounts for highly privileged roles (e.g. domain admins, global admins, root, and any domain admin equivalent access) when administering cloud services to minimize the blast radius.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | <ul><li>Provide evidence that dedicated user accounts are used for administration (e.g., privileged access).</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

| Additional Considerations |
| ------------------------- |
| None                      |

## References

1. [SPIN 2017-01](https://www.canada.ca/en/treasury-board-secretariat/services/access-information-privacy/security-identity-management/direction-secure-use-commercial-cloud-services-spin.html), subsection 6.2.3
2. CSE Top 10 #3
3. Refer to the [Recommendations for Two-Factor User Authentication Within the Government of Canada Enterprise Domain](https://intranet.canada.ca/wg-tg/rtua-rafu-eng.asp)
4. [Refer to the GC Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Strategy Paper](https://www.gcpedia.gc.ca/gcwiki/images/9/9e/GC_MFA_Strategy.pdf)
5. Refer to the [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601), [Appendix G: Standard on Enterprise Information Technology Service Common Configurations](https://www.tbs-sct.canada.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32713) - [Account Management Configuration Requirements](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/policies-standards/enterprise-it-service-common-configurations/account.html)
6. Refer to the [GC Event Logging Guidance](https://www.gcpedia.gc.ca/gcwiki/images/e/e3/GC_Event_Logging_Strategy.pdf).
7. Refer to [ITSP.50.104 Guidance on defence in depth for cloud-based services](https://cyber.gc.ca/en/guidance/itsp50104-guidance-defence-depth-cloud-based-services), subsection 4.6

Related security controls: AC-2, AC-2(11), AC-3, AC-5, AC-6, AC- 6(5), AC- 6(10), AC-19, AC – 20 (3), IA-2, IA-2(1)
IA - 2(2), IA-2(3), IA – 2(11), IA-5(8), SI-4, SI-4(5), SA-4(12), CM-5.
